**Professional Self-Assessment:**

Completing my coursework throughout the Computer Science program at SNHU as helped me develope my expertise as a software engineer. I have learned many invaluable things about the field of Computer Science. I feel as though I now posess a set of tools that will only serve to help me throughout my future career in software engineering. My skills range from translating Assembly code into high level languages, to developing fully fledged mobile applications with much more in between. I am fluent in C++, Java, and Python and I have a working knowledge of several other languages including JavaScript and Ruby. I have experience in most of the major software development IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft VSC and more. These skills will no doubt serve to help in my future endeavors. Aside from my technical skills, I also have learned a lot about the software development process. I have learned about the Agile methodology to software engineering and have served in each of the Agile roles. I have learned about testing methodologies and best practices which have helped me find bugs and security vulnerabilites in my code ever since. I have learned how to create Sequence, Structural and Class diagrams and how to use versioning systems like Git, which have helped me to better plan and communicate software design elements to other team members and stakeholders. I have created many relational and non-relational databases using SQL, SQLite, MongoDB, and FirebaseDB just to name a few. I have also learned a lot about the operating systems which serve as the foundation of almost every piece of software we use or create. I have become and avid Linux user since learning about all of it's unique features. I am certainly proud to have learned all of this valuable information and to have developed these skills and best practices, but I am more excited to learn more while focusing this broad knowledge base into a specialized career. My professional goal is to find employment as a mobile app developer. I genuinely enjoy developing mobile applications, so much so that I do it in my free time. 

I believe the artifacts that I have included in this portfolio do a great job of showcasing my full range of computer science talents and abilities. VectorSorting.cpp shows my fluency in C++, as well as my ability to work with complex data structures and algorithms while maintaining safe and secure code. Pyramid.cpp showcases my ability to work with advanced libraries and is a visual representation of my understanding of modern computer graphics. The Inventory Management App is by far one of my favorite projects to have worked on. I throuroughly enjoyed learning about the Android ecosystem and developing a fully functional application from the ground up. The artifact specifically showcases my abilities in database management and manipulation. All of these artifacts showcase my attention to detail, proper code commmenting and formatting, and professionalism.

**Informal Code Review:**

https://youtu.be/UdtpOzPj8m8

**Artifacts:**

-[VectorSorting.cpp](https://github.com/ethanmotaco/CS-Capstone/blob/gh-pages/VectorSorting.cpp) 	

-[Pyramid.cpp](https://github.com/ethanmotaco/CS-Capstone/blob/gh-pages/Pyramid.cpp)	

-[App Database](https://github.com/ethanmotaco/CS-Capstone/tree/gh-pages/App%20Database) 	


**Algorithms and Data Structures Narrative:**

The artifact I will be selected to demonstrate algorithms and data structures is called “VectorSorting.cpp.” It is C++ code that demonstrates sorting vector data structures using a quick sort algorithm. This artifact was selected because it showcases my skills in working with vector data structures in C++ and my ability to create sorting algorithms from scratch. To enhance this code, I have implemented a selection sort algorithm. This demonstrates an understanding of both the Vector data structure and the Selection Sort algorithm. Enhancing this artifact was a straightforward process because the infrastructure for the vector data structure was already in place. In order to enhance the code, I simply wrote a selection sort algorithm which took the vector as an input and added a user selection case which triggers the selection sort algorithm and outputs the results. Now the user is able to sort the vector with either a quick sort or a selection sort algorithm. The most challenging part of this process was writing the sorting algorithm while fixing the bugs that popped up. It took a few tests in order to work out all the bugs after I initially wrote the code. 

**Software Engineering/Design Narrative:**

The artifact I selected to demonstrate software engineering/design is called “Pyramid.cpp.” It is a C++ code sample I created for a computer graphics course in order to demonstrate proficiency with OpenGL. This code displays a 3d rotating pyramid which is textured and lit using OpenGL. This code sample showcases my understanding of software design fundamentals. I was given a set of requirements that the program had to meet in order to be considered complete. To enhance this code, I have changed the lighting conditions of the scene. The changes to these conditions include the light color being changed from white to red, increased strength of the ambient lighting, decreased strength of specular intensity, and a decreased highlight size. These enhancements simulate a software design process in which requirements may change throughout the course of development. One challenge I faced was remembering how the code functioned after having not worked with it for several months. This process was helped greatly by the thorough commenting I did when first writing the code. I knew exactly which variables to change in order to achieve the desired effect.

**Database Narrative:**

The artifact I selected to demonstrate database manipulation is called "Inventory Management App." It is an Android application I created for a mobile architecture and programming course. I chose to demonstrate the database portion of the application in order to showcase my ability to manipulate SQL databases. The app gives the user the ability to perform CRUD operations to two tables within the database. The first table stores user login information. This information is checked against the login information provided by the user at app startup in order to keep the data within the second database table secure. The second table in the database contains the user's inventory items. The user is able to create new items and specify quantity, update item quantity, read item name and quantity, and delete items from the inventory. All of these changes are saved to the database. To enhance this code I have added several queries to the code in order to expand the functionality of the app. I have also added some columns to the inventory table. I added columns for itemColor, itemMass, and itemVolume. This allowed me to create queries to retrieve items based on the item's color or maximum mass or volume. This gives the user of the app the ability to sort the inventory screen based on these values. These changes required the database to be migrated when the updated APK was installed on the user's device. This part of the enhancement was the most difficult as it required me to write migration rules to properly update the database schema without corrupting the data inside. I had never had to migrate a database before so this was a learning experience for me. Accomplishing this task demonstrates my ability to deploy database schema manipulations without disturbing app user data.  



